If you woke up with Jigsaw telling you
that you have seconds to find a key before
you’re butchered, what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
Amanda and Jigsaw’s latest victims, see if
we can make better decisions, and ultimately
attempt to beat the Traps in Saw 3.
Think you can do better, let us know in the
comments! Enjoy these How to Beat videos,
like and subscribe! Have a movie you’d like
me to cover, reply to this comment!
If you haven’t seen my videos on Saw 1 & 2,
go check it out to see how all
of the pain and suffering in this
sequel could have been prevented.
Let’s see if we can beat Jigsaw and his
Traps, for the third time.
We start out where Saw 2 left off,
with Eric’s impulsive decision making landing
him in what’s quickly becoming the most
rancid bathroom on Earth.
Eric doesn’t have a game here.
On the cassette tape Amanda gave him, she says
that he’s a test subject for future games.
This means that there’s no playing along and
winning anymore. She will be back soon to rig him
up in a contraption to test it’s lethality.
Eric could wait and see if the police find him,
but I'm not too confident in Detective
Kerry’s abilities. I think he’s on his
own. Amanda could be back in a couple hours,
or a couple days. Either way, he needs to be
ready to ambush her when she arrives.
The gun lying next to him is unloaded,
so he’s going to have to do Amanda in the
old fashioned way. He can’t ambush her in
his current shackled position, which
really only leaves two options.
Amputation, or pulverizing his ankle
bone into dust and slipping his wet
noodle of a foot through the shackle. Tough
to say which one is more preferable.
I think I’d go with pulverizing my ankle for a
number of reasons. Less chance of bleeding out.
No need for a dangerous tourniquet that you might
have to leave on for days. No horrible infection
from using a rusty saw contaminated with the
decaying rotten flesh from Lawrence’s foot and
Xavier’s throat. Less chance of the old shitty saw
breaking off midway into your ankle, and by only
breaking your ankle, you could potentially keep
your foot if you make it out of here alive.
Eric opts for amputation. He bites down on
his shirt, lines the saw up on his ankle,
but gets cold feet and rage throws one of the
only ways to save himself across the room.
Realizing there’s no other way, and that he
absolutely has to get his leg free to save
himself and Daniel, he grabs a nearby toilet
cover and goes to town on his ankle.
Apparently Amanda left the door unlocked like an
idiot, so Eric attempts his great escape. Amanda,
did you not think that Eric would use the saw or
find a way out of his shackle eventually?
He gets the drop on her and clubs her
over the head, but instead of going for
the kill he tries to interrogate her
to find out where his son is.
I’m going to go ahead and say that this was a
bad call. Interrogating your enemy for answers
only works when you are in a position of
power and they have something to gain.
Neither of these are the case. Eric’s in
an extremely vulnerable and weak state, and
Amanda has little to gain by answering him. He’d
just kill her anyway. He should also know that
Jigsaw’s accomplices are fanactical, and won’t be
intimidated by threats. The only way this ends is
with Amanda fighting him to the death.
Eric should have buried his knife under her
jaw the first chance he had, gotten to
safety, and had the police conduct a
thorough investigation of the building.
Amanda uses this opportunity to kick out
Eric’s broken ankle and drag
him back into captivity.
Since Eric failed his game and let Jigsaw
go, his rampage continues uninhibited.
A man named Troy wakes up in a chair with chains
looped through his jaw, shoulders, arms, hips,
heels, and hands. Each set of chains is
pulling on him from all directions.
The TV turns on and Jigsaw lays out the game.
On a desk right across from him there’s a nail
bomb with 1 minute and 30 seconds counting
down on the timer. I know I'm supposed to be
helping Troy here, but Jigsaw should have put
the explosive on the other side of the jar if
he wanted the nails to explode towards Troy.
If we’re being real here, the chains looped around
his achilles and through his jaw are not coming
out. There’s no fucking way you are ripping your
own jaw off. You’d need crazy leverage and
power to pull the tendons off the bone and
to tear the flesh away completely so that it
was fully free from your body. And that’s even
disregarding the fact that your brain is going
to be actively shutting the procedure down.
If another person put their foot on your
forehead, grabbed your lower jaw with both
hands, and deadlifted it with all their might,
I still don’t think your jaw would come loose
unless it’s Brian Shaw or The Mountain.
We’ve established that escape is not an option.
The only ways to survive now are to deflect and
distance the blast or diffuse the bomb.
The other chains appear to be looped
through the epidermal layer only,
so ripping these ones out is plausible.
With only the jaw and achilles loop remaining,
he should be able to move forward and to the side
enough to pull the bomb desk towards himself,
or use his chair to pull it toward
him. Then, he can grab the bomb.
Since this bomb looks homemade, it’s probably
a low enough yield that it could be survivable
if he tossed it behind the teachers desk
and barricaded himself behind some of the
metal desks. Alternatively, he could pull the
bomb off the nail jar, put it in a desk cubby,
and throw the cubby across the room. I wouldn’t
try to throw it through the windows as there’s
a high chance of it bouncing off or getting
caught by the blinds. You’re going to be close
to the bomb in an enclosed area, so you definitely
want to have your mouth open when it goes off. By
keeping your mouth open, you allow air to escape
your lungs when the pressure wave hits you so your
innards don’t pop like a squeezed balloon.
There is evidence that this bomb is survivable.
When the police are investigating the crime
scene, they pick up the burnt teddy bear that
was attached to the bomb, as well as recover the
functioning tape from the TV right across from it.
This is still incredibly risky, so I would
attempt to disarm the bomb first.
The bomb looks like an explosive compound with
a timer serving as the electric detonator that
triggers when the timer hits zero. It looks
pretty crude, and I doubt Jigsaw would have
anticipated someone trying to diffuse
it and so they wouldn’t have put in a
secondary failsafe trigger. From the looks of
it, simply removing the batteries on the front
should remove the ability to generate a current.
Of course, you’d still want to throw it across the
room just in case it wasn’t fully disarmed.
Troy doesn’t try to disarm or deflect the bomb.
He hastily starts tearing the chains out before
assessing the situation, and makes good time,
but inevitably can’t budge the last ring
through his jaw before the bomb goes off.
Later that night Kerry is reviewing Troy’s
tapes and all the evidence in her bedroom.
Eric and Riggs weren’t lying, Kerry’s obsession
has completely hollowed out her entire life. To
be fair, I don’t think you can just switch
it off after seeing everything she’s seen,
and after Jigsaw had abducted one of her
detectives. It’s not like she can just hit
pause, pretend everything's fine, and
go vacay in the Keyes to drunk karaoke
‘Call Me Maybe’ with her girlfriends.
When the tape ends, the channel changes to
a live video of Kerry’s bedroom. The camera for
it looks like it’s coming from the closet. Kerry
ain’t fucking around, and blasts it with her
service pistol she kept bedside. I gotta give
her props for keeping a weapon on her at all times
and not hesitating to send lead into the closet
before she checked it out. She did only shoot high
and center though. If you think Jigsaw’s hiding
in your closet, you fire high to low and left to
right so you can hit them if they hit the deck or
were hiding on one side of the closet. You could
put a bullet in the center top if you played too
much Splinter Cell and were extra paranoid.
Kerry goes to clear the closet. Again, props for
keeping her gun up and not stupidly holstering
her weapon to check it out, like Eric did in the
bathroom at the end of Saw 2. Still, this smells
like a trap to me. I’d back off and call 911.
Pigmask was smart not to hide in the
closet anymore. That worked on Adam, but
Kerry’s way too on edge. Wait, where did pigmask
even come from? There was literally nothing but a
wall on that side of the room. Is Amanda also an
apprentice of the Ozunu Ninja Assassin Clan?
Kerry wakes up in her worst nightmare. I hope you
learned something from reviewing all these crime
scenes and tapes.
Okay,
so the mission’s clear. We have one minute to dunk
our hand in a jar of highly corrosive acid to get
a key which unlocks or disarms the trap, or we
end up like a chestburster victim from Alien.
Looking around, there’s nothing that
you could use the key on that would
disarm the contraption. The padlocks on the
leather harness aren’t going to halt it,
and since it’s hooked into her ribcage she
can’t just undo the harness and pop out.
If the acid isn’t corrosive enough to disintegrate
the key for an entire minute, there's no way it
will melt through all the steel braided cables
that will be pulling her ribcage apart. She could
try to hold the metal wings closed with her arms
and legs, but it would be futile. The hydraulics
on this contraption will be far too powerful.
I’m going to go with there’s no real way to
beat this trap. This isn’t a
game, it’s an execution.
Amanda walking in as Kerry’s ribs took flight
just proves that Kerry didn’t have a shot.
Amanda would never have let her live even
if Kerry escaped the trap somehow.
The only way Kerry could have survived is
by not getting caught in the first place,
but since pigmask is apparently a phase-shifting
ninja that can pass through walls without making
a sound, she didn’t stand a chance.
Amanda and Jigsaw’s next victim is Dr.
Lynn. After rolling out of bed with
her affair to save a dying kid,
Amanda jumps her in the hospital locker room.
Lynn then wakes up gagged and tied to a wheelchair
in a trap factory. Compared to Jigsaw’s other
victims, she could have woken up in a lot worse of
a situation. Amanda shows up with her takeout and
wheels Lynn over to Jigsaw’s homemade infirmary.
Jigsaw’s not looking too hot. His beatdown from
Eric definitely didn’t help the cancer.
Jigsaw tells her the 6 words
no woman wants to hear.
The collar Amanda’s placing around her neck is
linked to Jigsaw’s heart rate monitor. The second
his heart rate flatlines, or she leaves this
building, the collar will release the spring
loaded hammers which will detonate the five
shotgun shells directed towards her neck.
Lynn has to keep John alive until another victim
on the monitor’s outside completes their test.
If the other victim completes all of their
tests, and John still has a pulse, Amanda
will remove her collar and she’s free to go.
There’s a lot of shit that can go wrong here.
Based on Lynn’s ocular patdown of John,
his condition is rapidly deteriorating and
he could go at any time. This hospital isn’t
stocked with the necessary tools, medications,
and trained personnel to keep him alive.
Even with all this, John still might not be
savable. The heart rate monitor could fail or
the power could temporarily go out. There’s a
high probability the other contestant won’t win
their game. Amanda’s coming across as emotional,
unpredictable, and bloodthirsty. She can’t
be trusted to honor the rules of the game,
and may kill Lynn anyways.
Playing the game is too risky,
so Lynn needs to find a way to disarm
the collar and take them all out.
Straight up trying to kill Amanda
for the collar’s key is pretty risky.
Amanda will be anticipating this and won’t
go down easy. Both her and John might have
remote detonators for the collar too.
Amanda see’s Lynn thinking about this option
and runs some reverse psychology.
Bury the axe in the base of her skull
right now. She won’t be able to let a scream out
if you do it right, and then you can grab the key,
take the collar off, slit Jigsaw’s
throat, and save your husband who’s
on the monitors playing Jigsaw’s metagame.
Actually, I wouldn’t trust the key to not activate
the collar somehow. Amanda was a little too
overt about putting it around her neck. Seems
like bait. I would try to disarm it first.
There’s a number of ways this can be done.
Lynn could snag one of the electric bone
saws, tell John she’s taking a bathroom break
and that Amanda’s out shopping for medical
supplies, then try to cut the collar off.
It’s a bit risky, as John will wise up
and possibly remotely detonate her, or the
procedure itself might set the trap off.
The least risky method is to try to yank the
shotgun shells out of their vices. Shotgun
shells are made of plastic and could potentially
be squished and jimmyed out. If the vices are
too tight, she could use any one of the sharp
objects in the building to cut open the ends of
the shotgun shells and drain the shot pellets out.
Even without the shot, there’s a plastic wad
inside the shell that separates the gunpowder
from the shot itself. These wads get shot out too,
and could easily penetrate her soft neck flesh.
She’d want to put something hard between her
neck and the shells to stop the wads. Lynn could
also use fabric and tape to cover the primers
of the shells, or stuff the hammer slot which
will jam it so it can’t strike the primer.
Lynn can’t muster the courage to drop the axe
on Amanda, and goes back to tending to Jigsaw.
When she palpates his head, she concludes that
his brain is herniating and will need to be
decompressed with a risky surgical procedure.
This is both good and bad news. The bad news, John
could die and take her with him. The good news,
Amanda needs to be sent off to go get crucial
medical equipment. Amanda freaks out at
this suggestion, and her tantrum causes
John’s condition to destabilize.
Again, good and bad. Bad, she almost got
her head popped from 5 different directions.
Good, because now Lynn’s diagnosis was validated
and Amanda can fuck off to go get
her the supplies she needs.
With Amanda out shopping and Jigsaw
pacified with some calming medication,
Lynn can use the previously mentioned
methods to disarm the shotgun collar,
slit John’s throat, and make a run for it.
Lynn wastes this opportunity by prepping for
John’s surgery, and Amanda gets back with the
supplies. Great, now she has to perform basement
cranial surgery at gunpoint. Good going.
Hopefully the other victim on the monitors can
complete his test in a timely manner. No rush
bro, but we’re dead if you don’t hustle up.
The man wakes up in a wooden crate with
a cassette recorder next to him.
Jeff smashes out of the crate and finds
a box with a picture of himself, a key,
and a note saying “open the door, Jeff.”
He wanders down the corridor and finds a door
with the words, ‘face your fears’, painted
on it. Hope you’re ready for your first
test. He opens the door and finds a
bare woman strung up in the middle
of the meat freezer. This ought to be good.
The door behind him closes and locks him inside,
so he won’t be able to go back for any
useful materials in the corridor.
Jeff tries the key on her padlock and the
door, but they don’t work. That would just
be too easy. No, he’s going to need to play
the cassette tape to hear what Jigsaw has in
store for him and this lovely lady.
How the fuck did Jigsaw know this.
The nozzles start periodically spraying
Danica with, I want to say water,
but cold water wouldn’t kill her that fast.
Jeff needs to find a key behind those pipes,
which means Danica has to be within seconds of
death to up the pressure and intensity. I think
she’s getting hosed with liquid nitrogen, which
means she’s only got a couple spray sessions
before she’s iced up like Boris in GoldenEye.
The most immediate thing he needs to do is get her
out of the nozzle’s spray zone while the sprayers
are active. At her current hypothermic temp,
that liquid nitrogen will start sticking and
causing 2nd and 3rd degree frostbite almost
immediately. Throwing your jacket around her
might help a bit, but it’s not as important
as getting her out of the way. He could try to
knot the hoses or cover them with his clothing,
but I think there’s a better option.
He could either grab her body and pull her
backwards, or if she has the strength, hoist her
up onto the beam she’s hanging from. Obviously,
it’s going to be a bit challenging, but I’m not
expecting her to pull some Riddick shit.
Two people working together and having her pull
up while using his back as a stand might work.
She did say she was so cold she couldn’t
feel her arms, so swinging her back
sounds like the game plan.
Once the sprayers turn off,
he can go for the key. It’s just out of arm’s
reach, so he’s going to need to grab one of
those meathooks in order to snag it. Or he
can freeze his face off on the metal pole
while stretching his arm out of its socket.
Jeff wasted too much time deciding if wanted to
forgive her, and misprioritized getting the
key over keeping her out of the splash zone.
This neglect was fatal, and Danica gets
glassed before he can undo her shackles.
At least his failure to save
Danica didn’t end his game.
Jeff leaves the meat freezer and
finds another box with a bullet,
a picture of his son, and a note that
reads, “one bullet will end it all”.
There’s another door labeled, ‘time to let
go’ with a bicycle and the little Jigsaw
doll reenacting what his son looked like
after getting hit by a car. Savage.
Jeff pushes the door open which snaps some
wires and locks the door behind him again.
He should probably start putting some of
those 2x4’s in each doorway he comes across
so he doesn’t keep getting locked in.
There’s a vat with a man chained to the
bottom of it with a cassette recorder
dangling on the catwalk above.
Okay, so, berate the judge that
let your son’s murderer off the
hook until his screams for mercy compel you
to forgive him. Then incinerate some dolls,
retrieve the key from the ashtray, and unlock
his collar. Simple enough. What's the catch?
Ah. Well, technically Jeff has plenty
of time. This trap is more about Jeff’s
mentality than anything. I’m sure you
could sabotage the cow line somehow,
or plug the gut soup’s drain hole with
something, but what’s the point when all
you need to do is push a button. I’m sure
it’s difficult to let go of your recently
deceased son’s possessions, but eventually
your survival instinct will overcome it.
Jeff does about as well as he can be expected to
do in this trap, and saves the judges' life.
Meanwhile, Lynn is about to start Jigsaw’s
operation. Before she begins, Amanda walks in
and tells John that the other contestant made it
through his second test. That he was progressing
faster than expected. Lynn has no idea how many
more tests the other victim has to go through,
or if they will succeed. I’m not sure what’s
riskier, trying to stall the procedure and
putting your faith in the other contestant,
or performing basement surgery. I don’t
think Lynn has much of a choice.
She gives John the local anesthetic,
cuts his head skin off, squirts some alcohol onto
his exposed skull to disinfect it, power drills
some marker holes, and bonesaws out a square
opening for the brain to expand into a bit.
Lynn’s a hell of a surgeon for being able to
do all this by herself with minimal equipment
under the threat of decapitation.
Everything seems to be going swell until
John’s heart rate starts plummeting. Nothing a
little O2 can’t fix. Amanda’s pretty distressed
by almost losing her father-figure, and runs off
to do some therapy thigh-cutting. I’m guessing
Mr. Jigsaw doesn’t know about all this.
The operation was a success, John seems to
be stable, and the other contestant
is apparently making good progress.
Lynn’s sitting in a good spot, but she’s not
out of the woods yet. John’s the only thing
pumping the breaks on Amanda’s psychotic murderous
urges, and his condition is rapidly fading.
John’s pretty much passed out right now, and
with Amanda gone, Lynn needs to use these rare
moments of isolation to jam the shotgun collar’s
hammers and swipe a scalpel she can run across
Amanda’s neck when she’s not looking.
Jeff approaches the last room’s door. There’s
another box with a magazine to load his pistol
round into, a picture of his daughter, and a note
that says, “one step closer to your revenge.”
Judge Halden gives him the tired ass spiel that
revenge isn’t going to bring his son back, only
make his pain worse. Now, I haven’t suffered
immense loss and gotten cold-blooded revenge, so I
wouldn’t know whether or not he’s right. Obviously
vengeance isn’t going to bring his son back or
fill the void within him, but it isn’t pointless.
Letting a murderer go relatively scot-free because
punishing them won’t bring your loved one back is
a ridiculous assertion. You’re just allowing
bad behavior to run without consequence. I’m
not saying Jeff should paint a white skull on his
shirt and start mercing degenerates or people that
made terrible mistakes, but hopefully you get what
i’m saying. If some dickhead ran your kid over,
got 3 months, and went on with their life
like nothing happened, it’s understandable
that you’d want more retribution.
Jeff’s final test of forgiveness kicks
off when he busts the door open and finds
Timothy, the drunk driver that killed his son,
in a hell of a contraption.
Jeff hit’s play on the recorder.
That’s a double barrel shotgun. Jeff’s
going to be taking a little more than
a bullet when that thing fires.
It’s still somewhat unclear if letting
Timothy die fails his game. I think he needs
to get the key to leave this place either way.
Based on the message, Timothy seemed like a man
that just went down a bad path, and made a tragic
mistake that he was sorry for. Jeff realizes that
he can’t let Timothy get murdered like this and
heads over to the shotgun box to get the key.
Timothy’s running out of time though.
On the brightside for Jeff, I don’t think
little Timmy’s gonna be driving drunk,
let alone driving after this.
Judge Halden is just standing around
like a clueless moron yelling oh my god like
a teenage girl. He should be attempting to jam
the cogs with his clothing or belt, ripping
out all the electrical wires he can find,
and finding the location where Jeff should
use the key to stop the machine.
So there’s a key dangling in front of
the barrel, actually, under the barrel,
and it’s held on by a little
screw off mount. Shotguns,
especially longer barrelled ones like this
will have very concentrated spread for quite
a distance. It’s not like in the movies where a
shotgun has a 2 foot spread at 7 yards. If Jeff
pulled straight down or unscrewed the latch and
took the key, the shot would fire over his hand.
You just want to make sure that the judge isn’t
in the line of fire before grabbing it.
Or else that will happen. Judge Halden
really should have been watching where he
was stepping. He knew there was a shotgun that
was going to fire when Jeff ripped the key off,
maybe watch the fuck out?
Jeff rushes over to Timothy and
tries to find where the key needs to go to
stop the twister, but it’s too late.
Well, Jeff got the key and made an effort
to forgive and save all the victims,
so I think technically he won.
Jigsaw see’s that Jeff completed his tests,
and instructs Amanda to remove Lynn’s collar.
As expected, Amanda goes full psycho bitch
and refuses to play by the rules.